31-Dec-2007. 

WHAT IS xtcc

xtcc is "Cross Tabulation Compiler" - intended to be a Market Research
for tool Data Processing. I originally worked on SPSS-MR's Quantum(tm) - a
powerful data processing software. However I felt it had severe
limitations, and I also always wanted to write a compiler. xtcc is a
result of my attempt to address the issues I faced listed below

** SPSS-MR and Quantum are trademarks of SPSS-MR 
	
REQUIREMENTS for COMPILATION AND RUNNING
	
	You need the following
	1) yacc/bison - I have only tested with bison
	2) lex/flex - Again I have only tested with flex
	3) C++ compiler - and standard template library
	4) Make ( and maybe autoconf and automake in case you need to
		tweak things)
	5) dejagnu - if you want to run the testsuite

	Compiling should be easy on UNIX systems
		There is a configure script. you would type
		$ ./configure
		$ make
	The built program is called "xtcc"
	Currently the directory "test-inputs" contains a sample program
	inp12. After a successful build you can run the program as
	follows
		$ ./xtcc testsuite/inp12 sample2.dat
		I haven't as yet added any file-logging facilities to
		the compiler's edit section so you stdout will be
		cluttered with messages. To make it run faster you can
		do this
		$ ./xtcc testsuite/inp12 sample2.dat > op
		The tables will be created in tab_.csv and  frequency
		counts in lst_.csv


PROPAGANDA

	* An almost C like syntax - no there are no pointers - but you
	  can create arrays and I have never felt the need for pointers yet.
	  	* The input language allows you to create functions and 
		* Strong type-checking. 
		* Also unlike quantum there are no label numbers for if 
		  conditions, or loops. 
		* you can define variables any where in the edit
		  section  
		* The language supports passing of data to functions by
		  reference
	 * There is no limitation such as a line has to be less than 200
	   chars in length. This has been a cause of many crashes and
	   core dumps in quantum - in my work experience
	 * The program can read very large records - quantum could read
	   a maximum of 32768 bytes on most machines that I know - I
	   hold the record size in a long integer (32-bit)
	
CURRENT STATUS AND FUTURE PLAN
	As of right now I have a working edit section - which I believe
	is the most difficult part of the software. I have miles to
	go though. 

	The program outputs a set of tables in a file TAB_.csv. This
	file can be opened by a text editor or most spreadsheet
	programs.

	I have created 2 sample data files - sample.dat and sample2.dat.
	sample2.dat has variation in the data and can be used to verify
	initial output at least. I have created an open-office
	spreadsheet document which contains the same data as in
	sample2.dat. The output from the sample input program in
	directory "test-inputs" named "inp12" demonstrates the input
	language - edit and tabulation sections.

	I have just figured out how to get dejagnu up and running and am
	planning to add automated tests to test the expected syntax errors and
	output. This, I hope, will be a consolidation phase for the
	compiler where I reach a stage of confidence in the output.

	I also am planning to re-vamp the error reporting, maybe I
	should add an error class or something and define some error
	codes as well.

	I need to add multiple field tabulation facilities.

	Creation of a data file standard - I use raw binary data for
	maximal performance and I should standardize early on the data
	format, so that the data is portable accross multiple
	architectures

	Need to create a pre-processor - so that include files can be
	processed 
DOCUMENTATION

	I have started on the documentation, but it is lagging way
	behind - the sample input program should help though.
	
LICENSING
	xtcc is licensed under GNU GPL version 2


AUTHOR
	Residential Address:
	Neil Xavier D'Souza
	502, Premier Park,
	1st Tank Lane,
	Orlem, Malad(W),
	Mumbai 400064.
	Email: NxD_in@yahoo.com

	I currently reside in Dubai
	you can postal mail me here on
	
	Postal Mailing address:
	TNS Middle East and Africa
	PO BOX 36376, Dubai.
	Mobile phone: +971 50 9567 201

